# Methods-of-class-and-object
We have discussed the functional sections of classes and objects, and let's now take a look at the data section of it. In fact, they are just plain variables bound to the namespace of classes and objects, which are valid only on the premise of these classes and objects.
There are two types of domains - class variables and object variables, which are distinguished by whether the class or object owns the variable.
Class variables are shared by all objects (instances) of a class. There is only one copy of class variables, so when an object makes changes to the class's variables, this change is reflected on all other instances.
Variables of an object are owned by each object / instance of the class. Thus, each object has its own copy of this domain, that is, they are not shared, and in different instances of the same class, although the object's variables have the same name, they are not related to each other. An example will make this easy to understand.
This is a long example, but it helps to illustrate the nature of the variables of classes and objects. Here, population belongs to the Person class and is therefore a class variable. The name variable belongs to the object (which uses the self assignment) and is therefore a variable of the object.
You can see that the __init__ method initializes the Person instance with a name. In this method, we increase population by 1 because we add one person. It can also be found that the value of self.name is specified according to each object, which indicates the nature of its variable as an object.
Remember, you can only use self variables to refer to variables and methods of the same object. This is referred to as attribute reference.
In this program, we also see that docstring is equally useful for classes and methods. We can use Person.__doc__ and Person.sayHi.__doc__ to access the document string of the class and method separately at run time.
Just like the __init__ method, there is a special method, __del__, that is called when objects are lost. The object is lost, the object is no longer used, and the memory it takes is returned to the system for its use. In this method, we simply reduce Person.population by 1.
When the object is no longer used, the __del__ method runs, but it is difficult to guarantee when the method will run. If you want to indicate how it works, you have to use the Del statement, just as we used in our previous example.
